# CSS

## Pseudo-classes and Pseudo-elements in CSS

Pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements in CSS allow you to style elements in ways that can't be done with regular selectors.

1. **Pseudo-classes**: A pseudo-class is a keyword added to selectors that specifies a special state of the selected element(s). For example, `:hover` can be used to change a button's color when the user's pointer hovers over it.
    
    ```css
    button:hover {
      background-color: blue;
    }
    
    ```
    
2. **Pseudo-elements**: A pseudo-element is a keyword added to a selector that lets you style a specific part of the selected element(s). For example, `::first-letter` can be used to change the font-size of the first letter of a paragraph.
    
    ```css
    p::first-letter {
      font-size: 200%;
    }
    
    ```
    

## 

```
div {
  animation: changeColor 3s infinite;
}

@keyframes changeColor {
  0%   {background-color: red;}
  50%  {background-color: blue;}
  100% {background-color: green;}
}

```

## CSS Transitions, Transformations, and Animations

1. **Transitions**: CSS transitions allow you to change property values smoothly, over a given duration. For example, you can change the background color of a button when the user's pointer hovers over it.
    
    ```css
    button {
      transition: background-color 2s;
    }
    
    button:hover {
      background-color: blue;
    }
    
    ```
    
2. **Transformations**: CSS transformations allow you to modify the appearance of an element. You can rotate, scale, move, or skew an element. For example, you can rotate an image by 45 degrees.
    
    ```css
    img {
      transform: rotate(45deg);
    }
    
    ```
    
3. **Animations**: CSS animations make it possible to animate the transition from one CSS style configuration to another. Animations consist of two components: a style describing the animation and a set of keyframes that indicate the start and end states of the animation's style, as well as possible intermediate waypoints.
    
    ```css
    div {
      animation: changeColor 3s infinite;
    }
    
    @keyframes changeColor {
      0%   {background-color: red;}
      50%  {background-color: blue;}
      100% {background-color: green;}
    }
    
    ```